Renfrew County West ARES had minimal participation in SET this year as we were preparing for the once-every-five-years full exercise of the local Nuclear Emergency Plan. One formal message was passed from the Laurentian Hills MEOC to the PEOC during the official SET day.

On Oct. 18th, there was a full exercise of the Laurentian Hills / Deep River Nuclear Emergency Plan. There were 7 centres in operation excluding AECL itself. Renfrew County West ARES provided backup communications for 5 of the centres. We had voice and packet with Outpost on VHF at 4 centres: The Municipal Emergency Operations Centre, MEOC, in Pt. Alexander The Emergency Information Centre, EIC, also in Pt. Alexander, The Reception Centre, REC, in Deep River, and the Evacuation Centre, EVAC, in Deep River. We had VHF voice only at the Red Cross in Pembroke. We also had HF at the MEOC. This was the first exercise that we used Outpost for packet. We had a total of 15 ARES members at the various sites.
The scenario started at 0900 with the assumtion that the callout had been made hours earlier and the centres had been set up. This was a bit of a challenge for us as the buildings didn't open until 0830, and in the REC centre, the equipment couldn't be accessed until after 0900. All centres were operational in a reasonable time.
The scenario did not include a failure of normal communications, so the players were asked to pass some of their messages through ARES. Consequently, we weren't overloaded with messages, but we had enough to test our communications. It turned out that a lot of the messages were passed to and from the Red Cross in Pembroke. We wished we had had the resources to have a packet station there. The packet systems running Outpost worked very well. The exercise provided an opportunity for many of our ARES members to experience packet operations for the first time. Some were surprised how simple communications were with Outpost. The exercise players were impressed by the timing and quality of the messages they received. We received an email from the Red Cross with some very favourable words.
One message was passed and communications were maintained throughout the exercise between the MEOC and PEOC on 3742 MHz.

We have to address some issues as: where to locate the packet stations so they are available at any time, and how to provide backup power to the locations that don't already have generators.

As we have for many years, Renfrew County West ARES provided assistance to the Pembroke Police by patrolling the city of Pembroke during Devil's Night, and Halloween Night. If an ARES member sees anything suspicious, the info is relayed to a base station set up in the police dispatch office, and the police will investigate. Since these patrols began, the number of vandalism incidents have reduced dramatically.
